>> Jon Kuperman: So let's go into the
lesson together, do a little profiling,
and then we'll do an exercise.
Basically, what I wanna do here is
I want to open up the Inspector.
I wanna go to performance, and then I'm
just gonna do a little recording, and
then maybe I'll just kind of hover
on a couple of different things, or
something like that,
and then I'll hit Stop.
And we'll kinda go back into
this sort of scary, but
getting less scary by the hour,
I hope, screen here.
So we can see pretty quickly, if we move
this, we can see, do we have page jank?
Let me just ask you that.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yes and a no.
Okay, why do you say yes?
>> Speaker 2: I say yes cuz when
I was looking at it on my own.
>> Jon Kuperman: It was a little
bit janky when you looked at it.
Okay, so
we do have a bit of these long tasks.
So when you see this red, it's not
a guarantee that you have page jank, but
it is telling you that certain
tasks took longer than that 10 or
16 milliseconds allotted, right?
So it's not necessarily a guarantee
of page jank, but it is saying that,
hey, look at this thing.
I know it's a bit small, but
this task took 18 or 0.18 milliseconds.
It's this long task that
took whatever it is.
So we've got a little bit in there,
not necessarily that we're dropping frames
because if we were, then we would see the
little red bars on top of these things.
So it is likely that we
don't have page jank.
That being said,
the red is at least helping us indicate
that we have long running tasks.
Cool, so we can kind of see here
that we've got some animations.
We can kinda look down into these and
kind of edit those.
We're gonna kind of avoid
a lot of this stuff for now.
We're really just going to stick into
this sort of main thread looking
at these things.
So we've got these animation
frames are firing.
They're calling these function logs.
And if we go ahead and we look and
we click through to the source code here,
you can see that we've got this frameLoop
that runs in a requestAnimationFrame.
So what I would hope,
as we sort of think about this,
is even being brand new to an application,
and you don't know the source code.
You've not seen it before.
You can kinda load it up.
You can see that there might be
some questionable performance, but
we probably aren't dropping frames.
And then you can see that we are using
probably some request animation frame,
animation frame fired, and in it,
we're calling a function called frameLoop.
Not looking at any source code,
just looking at the performance audit,
we can start getting, right,
some good ideas about this thing.
Okay, so this app is probably calling
something in a request animation
frame that takes a long time.
Maybe because of that,
we're not dropping frames.
Does this sort of make sense, how we're
kind of like thinking about things,
at least taking the information kinda
given to us here without knowing anything
about the source code.
Just sort of like putting some pieces
together of how this app is running and
what it probably looks like under
the hood if we kinda got into it.
>> Speaker 3: Show me again
how you got to the function?
>> Jon Kuperman: Yep, so just basically
clicking on anywhere any of these frames
here, and then you drag up
this little bottom thing and
it should tell you the stack
trace where it came from.
That'll take you back
into the Sources tab.
One really cool thing that I like,
kinda pro-tip thing is once you have
run a performance audit and stopped it,
from then on, when you go into
the sources, you'll notice a new column.
And what that column is is how long
on average that function took to run.
It's kind of a cool thing.
So it basically, decorates your source
code with these little visual sections
that are like, this console.log
took no time, but this frameLoop,
which caused an expensive operation,
took 3000 milliseconds or whatever.
So this will work on really large apps
too, where you run the performance audit,
and once that's finished,
you can go back into sources.
You just start clicking
on your source files, and
it'll have really detailed information
about how long each function took to run.
Okay, yeah?
>> Speaker 4: Is there a best I guess
you're on collecting your performance
snapshot, just cuz mine looks
a lot different than yours,
I don't think I got as
many of the animations.
>> Jon Kuperman: That's interesting, yeah.
>> Speaker 4: Full page,
how do I know I'm getting a good.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah,
that's a really great question.
Yeah, I think there's a lot of nuance
with how best to collect these things.
So I guess what I would say is,
when you're really looking for one,
I would pop out the DevTools,
I would go to Performance and clear this,
I would start a profile, and
then I would do a bit of interacting.
So there's a bit of a tricky balance,
where you don't want too
much information in there.
So I usually try to keep
the profile under five seconds,
otherwise it's just a lot
of data to process.
But you do want to be doing or
interacting with
the site in some way to see how it
performs under some amount of stress.
So yeah,
I think that's a really good question.
Yeah, I guess just like popping out,
keeping them more than a second but
under five, and
trying to interact with the site a little
bit as you're kinda going through it.
>> Speaker 4: What I heard is almost
like a test-driven development approach.
If you wanna test one thing specifically,
and
then if you have a lot of things you
wanna test, just test them individually.
>> Jon Kuperman: I think that's a great
way of putting it, yeah, absolutely.
Cuz I think you lose a lot of value
as the snapshot gets too long,
then you're kinda trying to
zoom in on where it might go.
I know these flame charts and flame
graphs can be a little bit difficult.
You've got a lot of different
ways to view the same data.
So again, with the way that these
flame group charts are working,
the x-axis is time and
then the y-axis is the call stack itself.
For example, we could go into that
debugging one where you had the function
numbered one, two, three, four and
you would see it that way.
So again, I know I mentioned this at the
beginning, but sort of what you're often
looking for is the last wide
frame in a stack trace, right?
So if this is one discrete
stack trace here,
the thing with the self time that
was a lot will be the last wide one.
So yes,
request animation took a while, but
really its self-time is
only 10 microseconds.
Yes, this anonymous function took a while,
but its self-time is only 0.18 micro.
So what you're really looking for
is the thing with the long self-time.
The function that actually took a while.
And you do have a bunch of
cool ways of loading this.
So if you go into the bottom, you can
view your stack trace in different ways.
So you can view this Bottom-up approach,
which will show Self time,
Total time, and Activity.
And you can click into different methods.
This is a lot more useful on a real
application, where you could just sort,
what's my slowest Self time on my
whole app, or something like that.
You can group things in different ways,
like group them by URL or
group them by types of activity,
stuff like that, which is pretty cool.
You can similarly do this call tree.
The call tree is like from the very
top thing, what did it call and
kind of explore.
So again, keeping in mind these are all
ways of visualizing the exact same data.
It's not different data.
I think that's part of what
makes the Performance tab so
overwhelming is that it's got sort of
multiple views of the exact same data.
So you can kind of see here,
even as I move around on one,
that it updates
the highlight on the other.
It's all the same stuff,
it's just for different tasks,
how you might wanna look at it.
You might wanna start by looking at it
over time with this kind of timeline view
that we have here.
Then you might say, okay, but
what was really my slowest thing?
So I can go to Bottom-up,
sort by Self time.
I can see that by far, frameLoop.js in
here was my slowest actual function.
So you can get kind of
a better perspective on it.